I love it!

What is this mysterious url?

Let's refine a few things to ensure it is: a. inclusive, b. we are able to
direct the organization even as participants come in and out.

Do you mean prescribe, in the beginning? Proscribe is a word too, which I
just learned the meaning of.

  That art has the power to change *beliefs*, and therefore people.

Yes. Addition: I think also, art has the power to awaken wisdom--inner
knowing, intuition--and that applies to more situations, and is less
changeable (or more inherently adaptable?) than "beliefs".

It is our belief that the concepts and principles enumerated above can
form the basis for a global network of collaborators *who share a
common set of beliefs*.

Need we say "who share a common set of beliefs" at the end? Without
this, it conveys the same idea and yet does not feel like it excludes
those who have not yet figured out if they share our beliefs.

  Any artist willing to commit time and resources to The Butterfly
Ship will receive compensation.

    This compensation can and will take many forms, but should at
least be tangible and material.

True. And this is perhaps an important point to articulate. Let us be
careful not to commit to it in such a way that someone outside of our
realm of influence---say someone who we freely let use the story for
their own project---might use this as an argument to ask for
compensation from us, the central organization.

 This is because the time and energy of artists is valuable, yet
habitually undervalued.

I may rather omit "yet habitually undervalued" (although this is true)
because I think we will be stronger setting up a new paradigm in which
we do value their time and energy and don't have to give time to the
opposite.

This organization is a loose federation of independent artists.

Loose federation of independent artists is correct. Does this still
leave room to establish a business with leadership, which I think will
be crucial to causing this project to sustain?

"However, several beliefs should guide our vision:

  All persons deserve to live healthy, secure lives.

  All persons deserve access to institutions in which their
contributions are valued.

  All persons must undermine individuals and institutions which
passively or actively deny access to health, security, or agency.

The Butterfly Ship seeks to spread these beliefs via artistic collaboration.

The Butterfly Ship will collaborate with other institutions seeking
the same outcomes.

These are overtly political goals because the time has come for the
artists, as citizens, to engage with politics in a more direct way."

Political section is good. And I think I agree with the wording.
However, I think these points naturally result from the personal
discovery/empowerment message (i.e. worth & dignity of every human
being yields a wish for their security & health).

There are specifically political groups like SF Mime Troupe & Bread
and Puppet but I think they are limited in their appeal, and so don't
always effect the change they should.

The Butterfly Ship has a unique opportunity to appeal to the best
nature in each of us, awakening the "Ever" in each of us...which is
needed for communication and collaboration which is the essence of our
democracy.

If we stay with our themes, they will speak for us more powerfully. We
can express our message by Practicing our values, and not faltering.
Living them and setting example.

2 reasons for being less specific: 1. We trust in the desire of humans
for happiness, and believe that
community/creativity/worth/inner-knowing are the means to this
happiness. 2. We must facilitate collaboration and respect of people
no matter their views to win them over to respect others. We can
perform all over the country without being prejudged.

I'd like to perform for children in hospitals, for schools, for
adults...and to do so I think we should trust we can create on stage a
reality that supplants the negative. We need not busy ourselves
undermining bad because our story exists in a different dimension,
where we can teach the development an inner moral compass, and live by
example a trust only in the ultimate power of the good.

The final sentence is wonderful and I think we think about whether to
keep it here or no. Because I do think we need to engage politically,
as American citizens, to maximize the agreement that people make when
they decide on a government, to not let ourselves be out of the
equation. More like, focus on how amazing it  is to be a citizen in a
democracy which we maintain by practicing our rights. But let us
consider whether it applies to/has leverage in the document.