* ARTICLE I *

This is a manifesto.

This manifesto is a statement of principles for The Butterfly Ship.

The statement of each principle should guide, rather than prescribe.

  That is, the principles should inform decisions made, but not dictate answers to specific problems.

The manifesto should be thought of as a living document, as the principles enumerated may change or be superceded.

  No specific method is recommended for changing this document.

  All versions of this document should be made available for public viewing at all times.

  All changes should include an explanation of why the change was made.

  These explanations should also be viewable.

* ARTICLE II *

The Butterfly Ship is an idea.

The idea has many facets.

One facet is the story, also titled The Butterfly Ship.

  This story has, and should have, many forms.

    These forms have included a theatrical play, live musical performances, an album, and dance pieces.

    These are just a few of the forms the story has taken; it is expected that there will be many others.

  Some themes of the story are:

    Empowerment

    Regeneration of the Earth

    Overcoming challenges

    Collaboration and cooperation

    Leadership

    Wholeness of character

    Inclusion

    Understanding

  There are other important themes that are not enumerated above.

    If more themes are added, they should be consonant with the themes above.

  The story should be made accessible to many audiences.

Another facet is the organization, which also has the same name.

  Currently, this organization is a loose federation of independent artists.

    Future organization will reflect the desires of active collaborators.

  Any Butterfly Ship collaborator may interpret the story in their own way, provided it is in line with the themes above.

    The above point should be interpreted as liberally as possible.

  Any artist willing to commit time and resources to The Butterfly Ship will receive compensation.

    This compensation can and will take many forms, but should at least be tangible and material.

    This compensation will be reciprocal and mutually agreed upon.

    This is because the time and energy of artists is valuable.

  We recognize the tension that exists between integrity of individual vision and collaborative freedom.

  The Butterfly Ship is able to synthesize these forces.

* ARTICLE III *

The Butterfly Ship comprehends many attitudes and beliefs.

There are too many of these beliefs to list in full, but some are included here:

  That through cooperation on creative projects, people can feel fulfilled.

  That hope for a better future is still possible and valuable.

  That art can empower people.

  That the world is in need of a hopeful, positive vision for the future.

  That we can be a source of a hopeful, positive vision for the future.

  That being together with other people, face-to-face in the real world, is important.

  That large projects can be accomplished by a few people working steadily for long periods.

* ARTICLE IV *

It is our belief that the concepts and principles enumerated above can form the basis for a global network of collaborators.

We do not yet have a holistic vision of that future which we seek to pursue.

However, several beliefs should guide our vision:

  All persons deserve to live healthy, secure lives.

  All persons deserve access to institutions in which their contributions are valued.

  All persons should be involved in creating organizations that foster access to individual health, security, and agency.

The Butterfly Ship seeks to empower people to embrace personal growth and build stronger communities.

We recognize that this is a broad goal which necessarily requires many approaches.

Our approach is to support and inspire artistic expression.
